Add task page on computational workflows (#384)
EVERSE-ResearchSoftware/RSQKit: pages/your_tasks/computational_workflows.md

Computational workflows have two prominent characteristics:

1. workflows consist of a series (or a structure) of **interconnected components** that may include other workflows, 
software, code snippets, tools, or services. The workflow defines the order, structure, and logic governing how 
these components interact to process data from inputs to final outputs.
2. workflows **abstract** the flow of data between the components from the run mechanics in some form of a high-level 
**workflow definition language**.
Workflow definitions detail inputs, dependencies, computational environment, step definitions, conditional logic, 
parallelism, etc. A dedicated **workflow management system (WMS)** is typically responsible for executing the 
workflow based on its definition, handling and tracking data (provenance), task scheduling and resource management.

At the simplest end of the complexity spectrum, a workflow might consist of a script (e.g. Bash, Python, R) or 
enumerated stages in an electronic research notebook (e.g. Jupyter, RStudio, Apache Zeppelin, etc.) with a set of 
instructions that use inputs and outputs to pipe the results together.

> At the other end, workflows might employ workflow management systems such as {% tool "nextflow" %}, {% tool "galaxy" %},

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the more sophisticated end, workflows might employ workflow management systems such as {% tool "nextflow" %}, {% tool "galaxy" %},
```

cloud resources efficiently — ideal for data-intensive research that would be impossible on individual machines.
- **transparency and provenance** - workflows serve as living documentation of your research process. 
They make your methods clear and transparent to collaborators, reviewers, and the broader community.
- **modularity and reuse** - similar to software code being built from functions and modules, workflows are built from 
smaller components that can be reused or swapped out. This makes your research more modular and easier to adapt to 
new questions or datasets.
- **collaboration and sharing** - clearly defined workflows enable easier discovery, collaboration across teams and disciplines. 
Everyone can understand and run the same processes, even across different systems.

## Describing & discovering workflows

How can we document and share our computational workflows and find other people's workflows for reuse?

**Workflow metadata** is descriptive information *about* a workflow — its purpose, requirements, inputs/outputs, 
dependencies, authorship, and provenance. Its purpose is slightly different to that of a workflow definition language,

> which defines the workflow logic and tells a WMS *how* to execute it (used for automation, parallelisation, and scheduling).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which defines the workflow logic and tells a WMS *how* to execute it (e.g., for automation, parallelisation, and scheduling).
```

Workflow metadata is not for running the workflow but for understanding, managing and discovering it.

[Workflow RO-Crate][wf-ro-crate] is a lightweight, structured metadata format designed to package and describe computational workflows 
and their associated resources in a FAIR-compliant way, extending the more general [Bioschemas ComputationalWorkflow Profile][bioschemas-wf-profile]. 
It builds on the [RO-Crate][ro-crate] metadata standard to encapsulate not only the 
workflow definition (e.g. CWL, Nextflow DSL, Snakefile) but also key contextual information such as inputs, outputs, 
software dependencies, authorship, and execution environment. By using Workflow RO-Crate, researchers can make their 
workflows more discoverable, portable, and reproducible—enabling others to understand, reuse, and re-run analyses 
with greater ease and confidence. It simplifies workflow sharing, supports interoperability, and is especially useful 
for publishing workflows alongside datasets or in workflow registries.

> Workflow RO-Crate is the metadata standard used by {% tool "workflowhub" %} and {% tool "lifemonitor" %} workflows 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Workflow RO-Crate is the metadata standard used by {% tool "workflowhub" %} registry and {% tool "lifemonitor" %} service 
```

---

## What are computational workflows? 

Computational workflows are a special kind of software that **automate** multi-step, multi-code data 
pipelines, data analyses, and other data-handling operations, especially through the efficient use of computational 
resources to transform data inputs into desired outputs.

Computational workflows have two prominent characteristics:

1. workflows consist of a series (or a structure) of **interconnected components** that may include other workflows, 
software, code snippets, tools, or services. The workflow defines the order, structure, and logic governing how 
these components interact to process data from inputs to final outputs.
2. workflows **abstract** the flow of data between the components from the run mechanics in some form of a high-level 
**workflow definition language**.
Workflow definitions detail inputs, dependencies, computational environment, step definitions, conditional logic, 
parallelism, etc. A dedicated **workflow management system (WMS)** is typically responsible for executing the 
workflow based on its definition, handling and tracking data (provenance), task scheduling and resource management.

> At the simplest end of the complexity spectrum, a workflow might consist of a script (e.g. Bash, Python, R) or 

Reviewer 2: Some thoughts based on as I read through the page/PR. **Not sure how my thoughts fit stylistically with the rest of the site,** so it's based on being familiar with things, but not with workflow engines per se.

I would personally move this to this paragraph to second in the document, with the additional highlighting (aside from quoting) added.

> At the simplest end of the complexity spectrum, a workflow might consist of a script (e.g. Bash, Python, R) or enumerated stages in an electronic research notebook (e.g. Jupyter, RStudio, Apache Zeppelin, etc.) with a set of **instructions** that use **inputs** and **outputs** to **pipe** the **results together**.

Leave the other paragraph in place so that you have with a light touch change:

> <strike>At the other end, </strike>Workflows might employ workflow management systems such as {% tool "nextflow" %}, {% tool "galaxy" %}, {% tool "snakemake" %}, {% tool "apache-airflow" %} or {% tool "parsl" %} using a variety of high-level workflow definition languages (such as [Nextflow Domain Specific Language (DSL)](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/reference/syntax.html), [Snakefile](https://snakemake.readthedocs.io/en/stable/snakefiles/writing_snakefiles.html), [Workflow Description Language (WDL)](https://openwdl.org/), [Common Workflow Language (CWL)](https://www.commonwl.org/), [Apache Airflow DAG](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/core-concepts/dags.html)).

Rationale: someone who isn't using a workflow engine probably uses workflows and may have an overloaded meaning of the word. (I know I did and do, and also based on the definition here have used lots over the years)

Also TBH, I like the simple example - and simple examples in general :-)

This is also personal taste - I prefer front loaded explanations!

Beyond that I don't have any significant comments - I find the page useful :-)

(It makes clear to me why we kept getting a collection of questions back in the day about a project I ran from 2002 through 2010, and if we'd extracted one or two pieces out of our code it would've been an in process and out of process workflow engine - since it matches the description here. We didn't view it that way - we viewed it as a concurrent component system)

I don't know what is the norm here yet, but personally I'd be happy to see this merged and _**if the comment above is suitable**_, to add a follow on issue for the trivial rework.

enumerated stages in an electronic research notebook (e.g. Jupyter, RStudio, Apache Zeppelin, etc.) with a set of 
instructions that use inputs and outputs to pipe the results together.

> At the more sophisticated end, workflows might employ workflow management systems such as {% tool "nextflow" %}, {% tool "galaxy" %},

Reviewer 2: As per other comment, I'd lose the start so this becomes:

```
Workflows might employ workflow management systems such as {% tool "nextflow" %}, {% tool "galaxy" %},
```
